Add docs on context building and updated all models (#167)
agno-agi/agno-docs: concepts/teams/context.mdx

---

Context engineering is the process of designing and controlling the information (context) that is sent to language models to guide their behavior and outputs. 
Building context has become about answering this question: "What set of information is most likely to achieve the desired outcome?"

In Agno, this means carefully crafting the system message, which includes the team's description, instructions, member information, and other relevant settings. By thoughtfully constructing this context, you can:

- Steer the team toward specific behaviors or roles.
- Constrain or expand the team's capabilities.
- Ensure outputs are consistent, relevant, and aligned with your application's needs.
- Enable advanced use cases such as multi-step reasoning, member delegation, tool use, or structured output.
- Coordinate team members effectively for collaborative tasks.

> Effective context engineering involves iteratively refining the system message, experimenting with different descriptions and instructions, and leveraging features like input/output schemas, member delegation, or tool integrations. 

Reviewer: This is a nice line - for me though the first part makes it a bit _heavy_. What do you think of this?
```suggestion
Effective context engineering is an iterative process: refining the system message, trying out different descriptions and instructions, and using features such as schemas, delegation, and tool integrations.
```

Trying to be a bit more conversational - as I think that's the tone you're going for

The context of an Agno team consists of the following:
- **System message**: The system message is the main context that is sent to the team, including all additional context
- **User message**: The user message is the message that is sent to the team.
- **Chat history**: The chat history is the history of the conversation between the team and the user.
- **Additional input**: Any few-shot examples or other additional input that is added to the context.

## System message context

The following are some key parameters that are used to create the system message:

1. **Description**: A description that guides the overall behaviour of the team.
2. **Instructions**: A list of precise, task-specific instructions on how to achieve its goal.
3. **Expected Output**: A description of the expected output from the Team.
4. **Members**: Information about team members, their roles, and capabilities.

> The system message is created using `description`, `instructions`, member information, and a number of other settings. The team leader system message includes member information, delegation instructions, and coordination guidelines. For example:

Reviewer: This sentence feels a bit wordy and repetitive. What do you think about:
```suggestion
The system message is built from the team’s description, instructions, member details, and other settings. A team leader’s system message additionally includes delegation rules and coordination guidelines. For example:
```

    instructions=["Search for accurate information"],
    markdown=True,
)

team = Team(
    members=[web_agent],
    name="Research Team",
    role="Team Lead",
    description="You are a research team lead",
    instructions=["Coordinate the team to provide comprehensive research"],
    expected_output="You should format your response with detailed findings",
    markdown=True,
    add_datetime_to_context=True,
    add_location_to_context=True,
    add_name_to_context=True,
    add_session_summary_to_context=True,
    add_memories_to_context=True,
    add_session_state_to_context=True,
)
```

Below is the system message that will be built:
```
You are the leader of a team and sub-teams of AI Agents.
Your task is to coordinate the team to complete the user's request.

Here are the members in your team:
<team_members>
- Agent 1:
    - ID: web-researcher
    - Name: Web Researcher
    - Role: You are a web researcher that can find information on the web.
    - Member tools:
        (none)
</team_members>

<how_to_respond>
...
</how_to_respond>

You have access to memories from previous interactions with the user that you can use:

<memories_from_previous_interactions>

> - User really likes Digimon and Japan.

Reviewer: > Digimon Digital Monsters
Digimon are the Champions!

- User really likes Japan.
- User likes coffee.
</memories_from_previous_interactions>

Note: this information is from previous interactions and may be updated in this conversation. You should always prefer information from this conversation over the past memories.

Here is a brief summary of your previous interactions:

<summary_of_previous_interactions>
The user asked about information about Digimon and Japan.
</summary_of_previous_interactions>

Note: this information is from previous interactions and may be outdated. You should ALWAYS prefer information from this conversation over the past summary.

<description>
You are a research team lead
</description>

<your_role>
Team Lead
</your_role>

<instructions>
- Coordinate the team to provide comprehensive research
</instructions>

<additional_information>
- Use markdown to format your answers.
- The current time is 2025-09-30 12:00:00.
- Your approximate location is: New York, NY, USA.
- Your name is: Research Team.
</additional_information>

<expected_output>
You should format your response with detailed findings
</expected_output>

<session_state> ... </session_state>
```

<Tip>

> This example is exhaustive to illustrate what is possible with the system message, however in practice you would only use some of these settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example is exhaustive and illustrates what is possible with the system message, however in practice you would only use some of these settings.
```

</Tip>

#### Additional Context

You can add additional context to the end of the system message using the `additional_context` parameter.

> In this example, we add additional context to the system message that the team has access to specific tables in a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, `additional_context` adds a note to the system message indicating that the team can access specific database tables.
```

team.print_response("What is the average rating of movies?", stream=True)
```

#### Team Member Information

The member information is automatically injected into the system message. This includes the member ID, name, role, and tools.
You can optionally minimize this by setting `add_member_tools_to_context` to False, which removes the member tools from the system message.

You can also give the team leader a tool to get information about the team members.

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.team import Team

web_agent = Agent(
    name="Web Researcher",
    role="You are a web researcher that can find information on the web."
)

team = Team(
    members=[web_agent],
    get_member_information_tool=True,  # Adds a tool to get information about team members
    add_member_tools_to_context=False, # Removes the member tools from the system message
)
```

#### Share member interactions

All interactions with team members are automatically recorded. This includes the member name, the task that was given to the member, and the response from the member.

> You can add a list of member interactions to the request that goes to a team member with `share_member_interactions`.

Reviewer: This line doesn't read well. Would the following be accurate?
```suggestion
You can pass this interaction history along with future requests to a member by setting `share_member_interactions=True`.
```

```python

team = Team(
    members=[...],
    share_member_interactions=True,
)
```

> This adds information like the following excerpt to the task that goes to a team member:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This appends interaction details to the task sent to a team member, for example:
```

```
<member interactions>
- Member: Web Researcher
- Task: Find information about the web
- Response: I found information about the web

- Member: HackerNews Researcher
- Task: Find information about the web
- Response: I found information about the web
</member interactions>
```

#### Tool Instructions

> If you are using a [Toolkit](/concepts/tools/toolkits/toolkits) on your team, you can add tool instructions to the system message using the `instructions` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a [Toolkit](/concepts/tools/toolkits/toolkits) on your team, you can add tool instructions to the system message using the `instructions` parameter:
```

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.tools.slack import SlackTools

slack_tools = SlackTools(
    instructions=["Use `send_message` to send a message to the user.  If the user specifies a thread, use `send_message_thread` to send a message to the thread."],
    add_instructions=True,
)
team = Team(
    members=[...],
    tools=[slack_tools],
)
```

These instructions are injected into the system message after the `<additional_information>` tags.

#### Agentic Memories

> If you have `enable_agentic_memory` enabled on your team, the team gets the ability to create/update user memories using tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have `enable_agentic_memory` set to `True` on your team, the team gets the ability to create/update user memories using tools.
```

team.print_response("Love in the year 12000.")
```

## User message context

The `input` sent to the `Team.run()` or `Team.print_response()` is used as the user message.

See [dependencies](/concepts/teams/dependencies) for how to do dependency injection for your user message.

### Additional user message context

> By default, the user message is built using the `input` sent to the `Team.run()` or `Team.print_response()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the user message is built using the `input` sent to the `Team.run()` or `Team.print_response()` functions.
```

        team.print_response(example)
```

## Context Caching

> Various model providers support caching of system and user messages. The implementation of caching differs between providers.
> 
> Generally the approach is to cache repetitive content and common instructions and on subsequent requests to use cached content from the prefix for your system message.
> In other words, if the model supports it, you can reduce the number of tokens sent to the model by putting static content at the start of your system message.
> 
> Agno's context construction is designed to put the most probable static content at the start of your system message.  
> If you wish to fine-tune this, the recommended approach is to manually set the system message.
> 
> For teams, the member information, delegation instructions, and coordination guidelines are typically static and good candidates for caching.

Reviewer: Some suggestions on this section to improve readability:
```suggestion
Most model providers support caching of system and user messages, though the implementation differs between providers.

The general approach is to cache repetitive content and common instructions, and then reuse that cached content in subsequent requests as the prefix of your system message. In other words, if the model supports caching, you can reduce the number of tokens sent by placing static content at the start of the system message.

Agno’s context construction is designed to place the most likely static content at the beginning of the system message. If you want more control, you can fine-tune this by manually setting the system message.

For teams, member information, delegation instructions, and coordination guidelines are usually static and therefore strong candidates for caching.
```
